docs/functions/internal.rst, before:

Internal Functions
******************

.. contents::
   :local:

These functions are designed to be used only by Liquidprompt internals and data
functions. These functions should not be used by users or themes, as they are
not guaranteed to be stable between versions. There are documented here for
information for those developing Liquidprompt.

Config
------

.. function:: __lp_source_config([--no-config])

   Load the user config and default config values. This function is called by
   :func:`lp_activate`.

   Also setup color variables that can be used by the user for their color
   config. Those variables are local to this function.

   If the ``--no-config`` flag is passed, defaults are set, but no config file
   is sourced.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_source_config``.
      Added ``--no-config`` flag.

Formatting
----------

.. function:: __lp_background_color(color) -> var:ab_color

   Returns the terminal escape code to set the background color to the
   `ANSI escape color code`_ integer *color*. No checking is done for invalid
   color codes.

   .. versionadded:: 1.12

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``background_color``.

.. function:: __lp_foreground_color(color) -> var:af_color

   Returns the terminal escape code to set the foreground color to the
   `ANSI escape color code`_ integer *color*. No checking is done for invalid
   color codes.

   .. versionadded:: 1.12

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``foreground_color``.

.. _`ANSI escape color code`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#Colors

Git
---

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_files(diff_shortstat) -> var:lp_git_diff_shortstat_files

   Processes the input *diff_shortstat* as the output of a ``git diff
   --shortstat`` command, returning the number of changed files. This allows for
   the comparison of any two states, as :func:`__lp_git_diff_shortstat_files`
   does not run any specific ``git diff`` command.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_lines(diff_shortstat) -> var:lp_git_diff_shortstat_lines

   Processes the input *diff_shortstat* as the output of a ``git diff
   --shortstat`` command, returning the number of changed lines. This allows for
   the comparison of any two states, as :func:`__lp_git_diff_shortstat_files`
   does not run any specific ``git diff`` command.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_staged() -> var:_lp_git_diff_shortstat_staged

   Returns the output of a ``git diff --shortstat`` command, comparing the
   staging area to the HEAD commit.

   The return variable is supposed to be a cache, set as local in
   :func:`__lp_set_prompt`, preventing duplicate calls to ``git``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_uncommitted() -> var:_lp_git_diff_shortstat_uncommitted

   Returns the output of a ``git diff --shortstat`` command, comparing the
   working directory to the HEAD commit.

   The return variable is supposed to be a cache, set as local in
   :func:`__lp_set_prompt`, preventing duplicate calls to ``git``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_unstaged() -> var:_lp_git_diff_shortstat_unstaged

   Returns the output of a ``git diff --shortstat`` command, comparing the
   working directory to the staging area.

   The return variable is supposed to be a cache, set as local in
   :func:`__lp_set_prompt`, preventing duplicate calls to ``git``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

Load
----

.. function:: __lp_cpu_count() -> var:_lp_CPUNUM

   Returns the number of CPUs on the machine. The implementation depends on the
   operating system.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

OS
--

.. function:: __lp_hostname_hash() -> var:lp_hostname_hash

   Returns the hash of the hostname as computed by ``cksum``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

Path
----

.. function:: __lp_end_path_left_shortening()

   Terminate a multi-directory shortening, checking if the shortening actually
   made a shorter path, and if so, adding the shortened mark. If not, adds the
   real path to the output. Only used internally by :func:`_lp_path_format`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_get_unique_directory(path) -> var:lp_unique_directory

   Returns the shortest unique directory prefix matching the real directory
   input. Only used internally by :func:`_lp_path_format`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_pwd_tilde([path]) -> var:lp_pwd_tilde

   Returns *path*, or :envvar:`PWD` if *path* is not set, with the user's home
   directory replaced with a tilde ("~").

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_get_home_tilde_collapsed``.
      Return method changed from stdout.
      Optional parameter *path* added.

Prompt
------

.. function:: __lp_set_prompt()

   Setup features that need to be handled outside of the themes, like
   :func:`_lp_error` (since last return code must be recorded first), non
   printing features like :attr:`LP_ENABLE_RUNTIME_BELL` and
   :attr:`LP_ENABLE_TITLE`, track current directory changes, and initialize data
   source cache variables. This function also calls the current theme functions.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_set_prompt``.

Runtime
-------

.. function:: __lp_runtime_before()

   Hooks into the shell to run directly after the user hits return on a command,
   to record the current time before the command runs.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_runtime_before``.

.. function:: __lp_runtime_after()

   Hooks into the shell to run directly after the user command returns, to
   record the current time, and calculate how long the command ran for.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_runtime_after``.

Theme
-----

.. function:: __lp_theme_list() -> var:lp_theme_list

   Returns an array of Liquidprompt themes currently loaded in memory. Looks for
   functions matching ``_lp_*_theme_prompt``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_theme_bash_complete() -> var:COMPREPLY

   Uses :func:`__lp_theme_list` to provide Bash autocompletion for
   :func:`lp_theme`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_theme_zsh_complete()

   Uses :func:`__lp_theme_list` to provide Zsh autocompletion for
   :func:`lp_theme`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

Temperature
-----------
.. function:: __lp_temp_detect() -> var:_LP_TEMP_FUNCTION

   Attempts to run the possible temperature backend functions below to find one
   that works correctly. When one correctly returns a value, it is saved to
   ``_LP_TEMP_FUNCTION`` for use by :func:`_lp_temperature`.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_temp_detect``.

.. function:: __lp_temp_acpi() -> var:lp_temperature

   A temperature backend using ``acpi``.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_temp_acpi``.
      Return variable changed from ``temperature``.

.. function:: __lp_temp_sensors() -> var:lp_temperature

   A temperature backend using lm-sensors provided ``sensors``.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_temp_sensors``.
      Return variable changed from ``temperature``.

Utility
---------

.. function:: __lp_escape(string) -> var:ret

   Escape shell escape characters so they print correctly in :envvar:`PS1`.

   In Bash, backslashes (``\``) are used to escape codes, so backslashes are
   replaced by two backslashes.

   In Zsh, percents (``%``) are used to escape codes, so percents are replaced
   by two percents.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_escape``.
      Return method changed from stdout.

.. function:: __lp_floating_scale(number, scale) -> var:ret

   Returns the input floating point *number* multiplied by the input *scale*.
   The input *scale* must be a power of 10.

   Shells do not support floating point math, so this is used to scale up
   floating point numbers to integers with the needed precision.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_is_function(function)

   Returns ``true`` if *function* is the name of a function.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_line_count(string) -> var:count

   Count the number of newline characters (``\n``) in *string*. A faster drop-in
   replacement for ``wc -l``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

Commit message:

Add Title command feature
This feature depends on the removal of the prompt escape sequences that
came before. Part of that is the removal of adding the title to $PS1:
now it is just print to the screen. This could improve speed slightly,
as the shell doesn't need to parse that text. But it does prevent usage
of prompt escape codes in the title.

I also needed to rework how the runtime feature was handled, since it
monopolized the DEBUG trap in Bash. Now it can handle multiple features
that need to run after the user has submitted the command, but before it
runs.

The feature itself is simple: lookup the latest command in the history,
and print the normal title postpended by that command to the screen,
formatted as a terminal title. Note that Bash's $BASH_COMMAND is not
great, as it only contains the current _command_, not the whole command
line.

Resolves #609

docs/functions/internal.rst, after:

Internal Functions
******************

.. contents::
   :local:

These functions are designed to be used only by Liquidprompt internals and data
functions. These functions should not be used by users or themes, as they are
not guaranteed to be stable between versions. There are documented here for
information for those developing Liquidprompt.

Config
------

.. function:: __lp_source_config([--no-config])

   Load the user config and default config values. This function is called by
   :func:`lp_activate`.

   Also setup color variables that can be used by the user for their color
   config. Those variables are local to this function.

   If the ``--no-config`` flag is passed, defaults are set, but no config file
   is sourced.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_source_config``.
      Added ``--no-config`` flag.

Formatting
----------

.. function:: __lp_background_color(color) -> var:ab_color

   Returns the terminal escape code to set the background color to the
   `ANSI escape color code`_ integer *color*. No checking is done for invalid
   color codes.

   .. versionadded:: 1.12

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``background_color``.

.. function:: __lp_foreground_color(color) -> var:af_color

   Returns the terminal escape code to set the foreground color to the
   `ANSI escape color code`_ integer *color*. No checking is done for invalid
   color codes.

   .. versionadded:: 1.12

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``foreground_color``.

.. _`ANSI escape color code`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#Colors

Git
---

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_files(diff_shortstat) -> var:lp_git_diff_shortstat_files

   Processes the input *diff_shortstat* as the output of a ``git diff
   --shortstat`` command, returning the number of changed files. This allows for
   the comparison of any two states, as :func:`__lp_git_diff_shortstat_files`
   does not run any specific ``git diff`` command.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_lines(diff_shortstat) -> var:lp_git_diff_shortstat_lines

   Processes the input *diff_shortstat* as the output of a ``git diff
   --shortstat`` command, returning the number of changed lines. This allows for
   the comparison of any two states, as :func:`__lp_git_diff_shortstat_files`
   does not run any specific ``git diff`` command.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_staged() -> var:_lp_git_diff_shortstat_staged

   Returns the output of a ``git diff --shortstat`` command, comparing the
   staging area to the HEAD commit.

   The return variable is supposed to be a cache, set as local in
   :func:`__lp_set_prompt`, preventing duplicate calls to ``git``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_uncommitted() -> var:_lp_git_diff_shortstat_uncommitted

   Returns the output of a ``git diff --shortstat`` command, comparing the
   working directory to the HEAD commit.

   The return variable is supposed to be a cache, set as local in
   :func:`__lp_set_prompt`, preventing duplicate calls to ``git``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_git_diff_shortstat_unstaged() -> var:_lp_git_diff_shortstat_unstaged

   Returns the output of a ``git diff --shortstat`` command, comparing the
   working directory to the staging area.

   The return variable is supposed to be a cache, set as local in
   :func:`__lp_set_prompt`, preventing duplicate calls to ``git``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

Load
----

.. function:: __lp_cpu_count() -> var:_lp_CPUNUM

   Returns the number of CPUs on the machine. The implementation depends on the
   operating system.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

OS
--

.. function:: __lp_hostname_hash() -> var:lp_hostname_hash

   Returns the hash of the hostname as computed by ``cksum``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

Path
----

.. function:: __lp_end_path_left_shortening()

   Terminate a multi-directory shortening, checking if the shortening actually
   made a shorter path, and if so, adding the shortened mark. If not, adds the
   real path to the output. Only used internally by :func:`_lp_path_format`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_get_unique_directory(path) -> var:lp_unique_directory

   Returns the shortest unique directory prefix matching the real directory
   input. Only used internally by :func:`_lp_path_format`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_pwd_tilde([path]) -> var:lp_pwd_tilde

   Returns *path*, or :envvar:`PWD` if *path* is not set, with the user's home
   directory replaced with a tilde ("~").

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_get_home_tilde_collapsed``.
      Return method changed from stdout.
      Optional parameter *path* added.

Prompt
------

.. function:: __lp_before_command()

   Used only by Bash to hack the DEBUG trap to run functions before the user
   command executes.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.1
      Renamed from the Bash version of ``__lp_runtime_before``.

.. function:: __lp_set_prompt()

   Setup features that need to be handled outside of the themes, like
   :func:`_lp_error` (since last return code must be recorded first), non
   printing features like :attr:`LP_ENABLE_RUNTIME_BELL` and
   :attr:`LP_ENABLE_TITLE`, track current directory changes, and initialize data
   source cache variables. This function also calls the current theme functions.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_set_prompt``.

Runtime
-------

.. function:: __lp_runtime_before()

   Hooks into the shell to run directly after the user hits return on a command,
   to record the current time before the command runs.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_runtime_before``.

.. function:: __lp_runtime_after()

   Called by :func:`__lp_set_prompt` to run directly after the user command
   returns, to record the current time and calculate how long the command ran
   for.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_runtime_after``.

Theme
-----

.. function:: __lp_theme_list() -> var:lp_theme_list

   Returns an array of Liquidprompt themes currently loaded in memory. Looks for
   functions matching ``_lp_*_theme_prompt``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_theme_bash_complete() -> var:COMPREPLY

   Uses :func:`__lp_theme_list` to provide Bash autocompletion for
   :func:`lp_theme`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_theme_zsh_complete()

   Uses :func:`__lp_theme_list` to provide Zsh autocompletion for
   :func:`lp_theme`.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

Title
-----

.. function:: __lp_print_title_command()

   Sets the terminal title to the normal set title, postpended with the
   currently running command.

   .. versionadded:: 2.1

Temperature
-----------
.. function:: __lp_temp_detect() -> var:_LP_TEMP_FUNCTION

   Attempts to run the possible temperature backend functions below to find one
   that works correctly. When one correctly returns a value, it is saved to
   ``_LP_TEMP_FUNCTION`` for use by :func:`_lp_temperature`.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_temp_detect``.

.. function:: __lp_temp_acpi() -> var:lp_temperature

   A temperature backend using ``acpi``.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_temp_acpi``.
      Return variable changed from ``temperature``.

.. function:: __lp_temp_sensors() -> var:lp_temperature

   A temperature backend using lm-sensors provided ``sensors``.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_temp_sensors``.
      Return variable changed from ``temperature``.

Utility
---------

.. function:: __lp_escape(string) -> var:ret

   Escape shell escape characters so they print correctly in :envvar:`PS1`.

   In Bash, backslashes (``\``) are used to escape codes, so backslashes are
   replaced by two backslashes.

   In Zsh, percents (``%``) are used to escape codes, so percents are replaced
   by two percents.

   .. versionchanged:: 2.0
      Renamed from ``_lp_escape``.
      Return method changed from stdout.

.. function:: __lp_floating_scale(number, scale) -> var:ret

   Returns the input floating point *number* multiplied by the input *scale*.
   The input *scale* must be a power of 10.

   Shells do not support floating point math, so this is used to scale up
   floating point numbers to integers with the needed precision.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_is_function(function)

   Returns ``true`` if *function* is the name of a function.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0

.. function:: __lp_line_count(string) -> var:count

   Count the number of newline characters (``\n``) in *string*. A faster drop-in
   replacement for ``wc -l``.

   .. versionadded:: 2.0
